hi I'm Margie zesting you're one of the
head coaches here at the IMG voluntary
tennis academy I'm standing here with
Ashley Dean one of our players who's
going to help me demonstrate in this
five-part video series on court
positioning court positioning is often
overlooked as a coach we talk about
strategy we talk about where to hit the
ball how to hit the ball but the basic
fundamental of knowing where you are in
the court is very important and can
often be overlooked let's take a look at
the serve positioning in this first
video Ashley's gonna walk up to the
typical spot where you see most servers
serve from which is about two and a half
to three feet from the hash mark
the reason we like this area of the
court along the baseline when you serve
is that gives you the best angle for all
of the three major target areas which is
the out wide serve to the green cone the
body serve to the blue cone as well as
the T serve to the yellow cone this
disguises all three serves the returner
has a hard time recognizing which serve
placement ashley is going to hit but
also understand that standing here
disguises the serve but you want to
recognize as a server what your strength
is and what the returners weaknesses are
so you base your positioning on that as
well so let's say Ashley served out wide
is one of her strengths you'll see her
typically stand a little bit more to her
right on the out wide on the deuce side
by serving here you get a better angle
to the placement but you also want to be
aware that you're giving up the disguise
factor the returner is going to
recognize that you're more likely to go
out wide on the serve as well as it
gives them an opening to hit their
return down the line so as a server be
ready to cover the open court it's
important to recognize your strengths as
a server but it's also important to
recognize the returners weaknesses let's
say Ashley's playing and her opponent
has a weaker backhand on the stew side
here she might want to move over closer
to the tee and serve to the yellow comb
by standing here closer to the tee she
gets a better angle at the
tea served to the yellow cone however
she is giving up the disguise factor so
standing typically two and a half to
three feet is the most common what
players use but you also see them use
other options by standing a little bit
further out wide or closer to the tee
that concludes our video on SERP
positioning now I'm going to cover
another important aspect return assert
positioning how to make adjustments if
the server has strength or weakness